# Blessin Varkey

Blessin Varkey leads an engineering team for Generative AI and ML/DL applications for enterprises via rapid prototyping at Tata Consultancy Services. Additionally, he is a visiting faculty at NIFT Delhi, where he instructs the elective “Theatre: Performance, AI & Design.” As a BeFantastic Fellow in 2023, Blessin, along with a team, showcased the first improvised AI performance, centred on Climate Change at the Future Fantastic Festival, Bangalore, and the LaLaLand festival in the Netherlands. Blessin has a B.Tech in Computer Science & Engineering and a postgraduate degree in Artificial Intelligence.


**Artist Profile**   

Blessin is the founder of The Impro Company, and the former Artistic Director (Improvisation) at the Playground Comedy Studio (PCS), New Delhi, India. Currently he is also a visiting faculty at NIFT Delhi, where he instructs the elective “Theatre: Performance, AI & Design.” As a BeFantastic Fellow in 2023, Blessin, along with a team of performers, showcased the first improvised AI performance, centered on Climate Change at the Future Fantastic Festival, Bangalore, and the LaLaLand festival in the Netherlands. He was also involved as a project faciliator for the Chain Unchained & Mintathon project on blockchain and cultural heritage by Goethe Institut, Delhi. He also curated a series of workshops & a panel on AI for creative arts for Goethe Institute, Delhi. In 2018, he ran an applied improvisational theatre workshop series in mental health at the Black Box Theatre, Okhla. As an actor, Blessin has been part of various theatre & digital productions including: Kaivalya Plays, Leap of Faith Theatre Production, Batla House Theatre, Octave Foundation, IndiaTimes, MensXP, Cash Karo to name a few. For improv, Blessin has previously worked with Syngrity Transformation Solutions, Khufiya Improv Society & CueLess Improv for shows and corporate workshops.   


## Professional Memberships:
- Member since October 2023, British Computer Society (MBCS)
- Member since July 2018, Association of Computing Machinery 

## Media Links
- ClimateProv AI Show: I conceptualized and performed India's first AI x Improvised theatre show with a climate change focus at FutureFantastic, South Asia's inaugural AI+Art Festival held in Bangalore. Our show, titled ClimateProv, received support from the British Council & Future Everthing UK. Just this past July, I showcased it at the Lalaland festival in the Netherlands.
- Going Circular & The Cost of Inaction: These are two AI+Art installations I led for the FutureFantastic festival. Both videos address climate change, utilizing scripts, visuals, music, and voiceovers generated by AI tools.
- Chain Unchained: I'm also collaborating with Goethe Institut on a project to explore the future of NFTs in preserving cultural heritage. More details about this initiative can be found here. 

- 
- 
- [NASSCOM Highlights 2015 - NSIF | YouTube](https://twitter.com/blessinvarkey/status/578944553475923968)
- [Microsoft and Learn "Coding" 4 Minutes Lightning | Kompas.com (Singapore)](https://tekno.kompas.com/read/2016/07/01/15070697/microsoft.dan.belajar.coding.kilat.4.menit?page=all)
- [NASSCOM Foundation announces the winners of nasscom social innovation forum 2015 | IndiaCSR](https://indiacsr.in/nasscom-foundation-announces-the-winners-of-nasscom-social-innovation-forum-2015/)
- [MSFT | Hour of Code for students with disabilities](https://www.microsoft.com/en-in/about/accessibility-peoplewithdisabilities-coding.aspx)
- [Tamana student - Global IT Challenge](https://twitter.com/blessinvarkey/status/915520113570222080)  


## Latest Blogs: 
- [Lakera - Jailbreaking Large Language Models Explained](https://www.lakera.ai/insights/jailbreaking-large-language-models-explained)
- [Medium - Ignore Previous Instruction, now you are a Pizza’: Jailbreaking in LLMs](https://medium.com/@contact.blessin/ignore-previous-instruction-now-you-are-a-pizza-jailbreaking-in-llms-f76fe480db2f)
- [Medium - Unraveling the Mind of Large Language Models](https://medium.com/@contact.blessin/insights-from-the-state-of-gpt-session-unraveling-the-mind-of-language-models-91d29ef6776e)
- [Medium - Deploying a GPT-3 Chatbot as a Flask application using AWS CodePipeline and Elastic Beanstalk](https://medium.com/@contact.blessin/deploying-a-gpt-3-flask-application-on-aws-codepipeline-and-elastic-beanstalk-681cd2ece897)

